




<!--Chapter 1: Leaving Early to Avoid the Rush.-->
![The gang ride toward Donregan.](/images/dnd/chapter-1.png)
#Chapter 1
##Leaving Early to Avoid the Rush.

Cluym, the young, necromantic, elven mage walked into his mentor’s room.
The old mage had been dead for a while[^1] but before he passed he had
left a letter for Cluym. As his apprentice looked at his mentor’s final
words he had difficulty in understanding their meaning. He understood
each word’s meaning individually, but his mind fogged over as he tried
to hold them all in his head together. After ruminating on the letter
for a few minutes a word came to his head, Phandalin. Now is a good time
to mention that Cluym, despite being a subpar necromantic mage, had an
extraordinary ability. If he didn’t know something he could get a sense
of who would have this missing knowledge. It would be a very useful
ability, if Cluym wasn’t a bit dim. He was convinced that Phandalin had
something to do with mature cheese. He was mistaken, and it wasn’t until
he had spent many long hours in the library reading through such page
turners as ‘Cheese through the ages’ and ‘Huel’s complete guide to cows,
milk, and associated dairy products’ that he stumbled upon a singular
reference to the Phandalin white. A delicate soft cheese invented by
Hawk, and named after his place of birth. Now realising his mistake,
Cluym packed his belongings and headed out to Phandalin. Well, he headed
out to the nearest village to get directions to Phandalin.

* * *

Some days later, in the quaint little village of Wyevale, the locals
were enjoying quite a show in the tavern. I say ‘the’ tavern, but
Wyevale technically had two. Although the tavern on the eastern side was
usually called an alehouse and attracted a more, refined clientele. A
bardic hill dwarf had taken up residence and had been drinking since
Thursday. Usually, after their coin purse had been drained, the regulars
would have chucked the dwarf out. However, this dwarf really knew how to
play the harp. The music brought in plenty of custom for the landlord so
he reluctantly let the dwarf stay free of charge. The evening was only
just beginning but the dwarf had drawn such a crowd that there was
barely any standing room left.

Up on stage, Yomada was a bit distracted. After a few moments of
silence, the dwarf looked down to see they had been strumming about two
foot to the side of their harp. Yomada hopped off their stool, nudged it
to the side, and resumed playing mostly where they had left off.
Something still bothered them though, it could be the… five; six days of
drinking? What day was it again? Well Alan was sitting in the corner and
he and his wife had been going through a rough patch recently, they
always argued all Monday night so he would end up in the bar on Tuesday.
It could have been the six days of drinking, but that was nothing new
for Yomada. It could be the harp, something didn’t quite feel right. Or
maybe it was the notice board[^2]. A new notice had been added. Yomada
stopped mid-chord and stumbled over to have a closer look. After dodging
under a few legs, and treading on every foot between the stage and the
notice board, Yomada peered to see what was written there. In big bold
letters the parchment announced ‘BARDS WANTED IN PHANDALIN, LARGE
PAYMENT, CONTACT MERRY’. The dwarf stood there swaying for a few moments
letting the words become less blurred. They then swung their fist to the
right aiming to hit the nearest person on the arm, forgetting the usual
height difference between humans and dwarfs. A rather angry looking
patron turned around to see who had hit them on the backside.

“Where’s this Phlandulum then?” Yomada asked.

“What? Oh, it’s up north somewhere.” The patron replied turning back to
his friends.

“Oh, and who’s this Merry?”

The patron sighed, “That guy over in the corner,” pointing vaguely in
the right direction. Yomada looked along the outstretched arm.

“You mean Alan?”

“No, that’s Merry, he put the sign up.”

“Right, and where’s this Philandrum?”

“Just talk to Merry,” the patron grunted as he shoved the dwarf away.
Slightly confused, Yomada crossed the tavern.

“Alan! How are you?”

“It’s Merry,” ‘Alan’ growled back in a thick Scottish accent.

“Hey Alan, how’s the wife? Still having troubles?”

“No, I’m happily married.”

“But it’s Tuesday, you’re in here because you and the missus have fights
on Monday.”

“It’s Thursday and I’m always in here, I’m the landlord.”

“Whatever you say Alan, what’s this about bards in Philandlinum?”

“It’s Merry, and yes, that seems perfect for you. They’ve opened up a
new theatre in Phandalin and they need entertainers to fill the slots.
Probably about eight shows a week, and they’re willing to pay
handsomely. More gold than you’ve ever earned I’ll bet. And the best
thing about it is it’s about a weeks travel north of here, that means
you’ll be far away from me.”

“That’s not a very nice thing to say Alan, after I brought in all these
customers for you. But I do like the sound of the gold.”

“Merry, and I must admit you know how to play a tune. And these idiots
seem to like it for some reason. But even so, it’s probably time you
moved on else you’re likely to be pinned up on the notice board by your
ears.”

“Right, I don’t want to over stay my welcome Alan. I’ll leave in the
morning,” Yomada stumbled away leaving Merry furiously wiping a mug and
turned to address the crowded tavern, “Right lads, ladies, and creatures
unknown, who wants to go philandering?”

A faint chuckle and some cheering spread through the tavern. Most people
went back to their drinks but one well-dressed half elf stepped towards
to the drunken dwarf.

“If you mean Phandalin then my cousin and I were heading in that
direction,” he announced. It was this precise moment, as luck would have
it, that Cluym walked through the door. His elf ears tingling.

“Did someone mention Phandalin?” Cluym enquired.

“Aye,” answered the half elf, “my cousin and I are…”

“Hey, back off elf. These are my travellers, find your own,” Yomada
interrupted. A brief verbal scuffle ensued between Cluym and Yomada with
a few short jokes and pointy ear references thrown in for good measure.
By the end, they had decided that Yomada was too drunk to care and Cluym
too persistent to back down, so they would both travel with the half
elves and neither of them would be happy about it. Yomada left to
continue playing the harp and Cluym stayed to inform the half elf what
was happening.

“Um, sure… I guess. Just so long as you both pay for the horse feed. I’m
Thogold Silvereye[^3], and that’s my cousin Cruben by the way. We’re
merchants. Just thought you’d like to know who you’re travelling with,”
the now slightly bemused half elf said, clearly hinting for Cluym to
offer the same information.

“Is the dwarf playing that harp upside down?” Cluym asked. Up on stage
Yomada finally realised what had been bothering them, and subtly[^4]
turned the harp the right way up.

The next few hours passed mostly uneventfully. Yomada pointed Cluym
towards Derek on the bar to sort out lodgings overnight. Davey, as he
was known to everyone else, took great pleasure in directing the elf to
Yomada’s room. Music was played, drinks were drunk. A fairly standard
night.

After a while, Yomada set about earning some coin before leaving
Wyevale. Sure, playing the harp was rewarded with food and lodging but
not much money. That is why the dwarf had to resort to some slightly
less legal means. Playing the harp taught dextrous, nimble fingers.
Being a bard taught charisma and confidence and how to make people like
you, or at least be friendly for a short time. And when all else failed
a few magic tricks could be used at a pinch. The first mark was a human
who obviously couldn’t handle their drink too well. Yomada started
talking to him and encouraged him to keep drinking, and to keep up
appearances the dwarf started drinking from an ornate silver hipflask.
Now this hipflask was actually a curious magical item. Any alcohol
imbibed from it had double the effect. However, any water drunk from it
had a powerful sobering effect. It wasn’t long before the human could
barely sit up without holding onto the table, yet Yomada had used the
hipflask to gain a clear head. It was quite easy to convince the patron
to lend Yomada a few coins, of course with the promise of repayment…
whenever they next happened to be passing by. A cursory glance of the
remaining patrons revealed that everybody was either too sober or too
poor to be of any value.

In search of further rewards, Yomada left the inn. Late at night the
nearby streets were usually littered with drunkards who had either
stumbled out of the inn or who had been thrown out. On this occasion,
there was a solitary figure lying face down in the mud. After a thorough
check it became clear that this unfortunate soul had either spent all
their money on beer, or had already been robbed. Most rogues would cut
their losses and move on, but Yomada was a cut above. Under the guise of
being a helpful soul, the dwarf helped the man up and escorted him home.
It wasn’t easy supporting a semi-conscious person a good two foot
taller, but the thought of ransacking an empty house kept Yomada going.
What Yomada didn’t count on was the drunkard still lived with their
parents. After stumbling through the door, a half concerned, half
annoyed woman came storming down the stairs. Unfazed, Yomada described
finding her son and bringing him home. She was so grateful that after
the two of them had manhandled her son into bed she produced a small
pouch and offered it in reward. Yomada humbly accepted and went to
leave, making sure that the woman was sufficiently distracted by her son
that she wouldn’t notice the dwarf taking a golden chalice that had
proudly been displayed on the mantelpiece. Satisfied with the night’s
ill-gotten gains, Yomada headed back to the tavern whistling a jaunty
tune. The merriment quickly left upon seeing the smiling face of Cluym,
sat in the corner of what used to be Yomada’s room. After a brief, civil
discussion[^5] they decided that since Cluym only needed to meditate and
not sleep, he would take the chair and Yomada could keep the bed. Before
going to sleep, Yomada decided to check what was in the pouch and was
disappointed to find a fresh batch of heart shaped scones. They tasted
wonderful, and were surprisingly filling, but it wasn’t quite the
monetary reward the dwarf was looking for.

* * *

Yomada woke to the sight of Cluym’s still smiling face. After an
exchange of insults, Cluym went to check on Thogold and Yomada lazily
enjoyed a final breakfast on the house. With everything packed and
ready, the party made their way to the stables and said a final goodbye
to the innkeeper.

“Thanks Alan, it’s been fun.” As the group left they could faintly hear
the words ‘It’s Merry’ rattle through the door. After preparing the
cart, and setting up the harp in the back, they were off. The plan was
to head north to Phandalin, stopping at the villages on the way to
restock supplies. If all went to plan, it shouldn’t take much longer
than a week[^6]. The first two days passed without incident. There was
some talking interspersed with harp music. Our reluctantly adventurous
duo finally learnt things about their travelling companions. The
Silvereyes were merchants who travelled frequently from one shore of the
Kingdom to another, trading goods until their purse was full and their
cart empty. Thogold was the brains of the operation and Cruben was… his
cousin[^7]. They were currently on their way back to Phandalin to fill
their cart again before sailing north to Tor. Rumours had been whispered
that there had been a change of regime, and the new leaders were trying
to get their hands on as much gold as possible in an attempt to line a
fortress with it. An odd thing to do of course but when magic, and more
importantly large monetary rewards are involved, it’s usually best not
to ask too many questions. The party also learnt not to trust Cluym with
the campfires. His method of lighting them involved a far too powerful
‘burning hands’ spell that turned a log into a charred matchstick. It
was on the morning of the third day that things started to go wrong.

The party arrived at Donregan, the first village on their route, early
in the morning. They needed to refill their food supplies, and giving
the horses half a day’s rest would do them some good. The cart stopped
just in front of what served as the main gateway into the village. In
years gone by it may have served some defensive purpose, but now it was
just three pieces of wood precariously nailed together with the name
Donregan barely visible. What could be seen on closer inspection though
was the phrase ‘the happiest place in the Kingdom’ more recently
scrawled onto it. Just inside the village boundary was a rickety shack
that served as the stables, and as the party approached they noticed
someone who appeared to be the stable master.

“Hello, beautiful morning isn’t it? We haven’t had visitors for a while
now,” the stable master said, gormlessly grinning at the newcomers. He
seemed unusually happy, especially given how early it was, but maybe he
was just one of *those* people. Both Yomada and Cluym were distracted by
this chirpy fellow but Thogold, as always, had business on his mind.

“Yes it is, I wonder if you could help us. We’re just passing through
but we need to restock our food supplies. I don’t suppose you could
point us to the right person, I’m sure you’re busy but there doesn’t
seem to be anyone else around this early to ask?” This prompted the
others to look around. Donregan was by no means a large village, but
even so, you would still expect to see a handful of people feeding
animals or generally going about their business. Thogold was right
though, other than the stable master there were no other signs of life.

“They’ll all be down in the tavern I suppose,” the stable master
replied, still grinning like the Cheshire cat, “I’ll take you over to
meet them. They’ll be thrilled to meet some newts like yourselves.”

“In the tavern this early? Now this is my kind of village,” Yomada
interjected, and cheerfully followed in the direction the stable master
was pointing. The others were a bit more concerned, and confused about
the ‘newt’ comment, but decided to follow anyway. As the group wandered
down the street towards the pub, a keen eye would have noticed shadows
darting between the buildings. Unfortunately: Cruben was watching a
butterfly; Thogold was practising his haggling technique in his head;
Yomada was too excited about the prospect of an early morning pint or
seven; and Cluym was staring the stable master in his eyes. Not the
you-are-so-beautiful-do-you-know-a-room-we-could-rent-for-the-night kind
of stare but the your-eyes-are
glazed-over-in-a-weird-way-and-you-are-inhumanly-happy-are-you-possessed-by-some-malevolent-spirit
kind of way. Cluym decided the absolute best way to figure out what was
affecting this person was to sneakily cast a charm spell on them and get
them to tell all their secrets. In what would become the start of a long
sequence of failures for our mostly incompetent duo however, the spell
fizzled and did nothing. Pondering on why the spell didn’t work was
probably the reason Cluym didn’t notice the small amounts of movement
out of the corner of his eye[^8].

“Isn’t it a bit early to be in the tavern? And besides, surely not
everyone will be in there? A village this big can’t possible fit in one
building,” Thogold enquired.

“Don’t worry,” the stable master grinned, “Just come with me into the
tavern and you’ll see.”

Yomada was still pleased with the idea of a liquid breakfast. So pleased
in fact that the dwarf didn’t notice the stable master pushing the group
along with a slightly firmer arm. Cluym however, was now very
suspicious. He decided to try something a bit more forceful this time
and tried to cast a sleep spell on the villager. Not only did this not
work again, little did Cluym know this now left him defenceless[^9] in a
decision he would all too soon come to regret.

“I don’t suppose this tavern of yours has any good, strong whisky?”
Yomada enquired.

“Of course, I even think they have a bottle or two of some old dwarven
whisky,” the stable master cheerily said.

At this, the copper piece finally dropped for Yomada. It was notoriously
hard to get a hold of dwarven whisky, you usually had to pry a dwarf off
the other end. A small village tavern would be very unlikely to have
half a bottle, let alone two. The whole party, except Cruben of course,
now suspected something was wrong and stopped walking towards the
tavern.

“Oh come on, the tavern’s just over there. It’ll be right fun. We all
love newts here,” the stable master said still grinning like a madman.
It was at this point that Yomada decided to slowly start backing away
towards the cart. Realising that the party was not going to cooperate
any more, the stable master took a different approach.

“Everybody!” he yelled, “We’ve got some newts out here!”

A brief moment passed and then a surge of people came storming out of
the tavern, all of them chanting the word ‘Newts’. It was surprising how
many people this tavern could hold, and just how quickly the mob was
moving towards the now stunned party. When Thogold and Cluym finally
decided to run for it, they found out their survival instincts weren’t
quite as finely tuned as Yomada’s who was a good half a street ahead of
them and already running at full pace. It wasn’t long before Cruben was
swallowed by the mob. One minute he was there, the next he had been
replaced by three villagers, all wearing the same grin the stable master
had. Thogold was next to be overtaken. He tried his hardest to fend the
villagers off, but there were just too many. At the sight of half of his
party disappearing into the advancing wall of flesh, Cluym decided to
take action. He turned to face the mob and tried to cast a spell, but he
realised too late what he had done earlier and instantly regretted
wasting those spells on the single villager[^10]. This small delay was
enough for a villager to grab him by the arm. Not known for his physical
strength, Cluym was unable to escape the grasp and was soon grabbed by
two more villagers. He felt himself being lifted off the floor and then
he was consumed by the mass.

Up ahead, Yomada had no idea what had just happened. Turning around to
look was a mistake a lot of people made when fleeing, and this dwarf had
a lot of experience in running away. Without the delay of worrying about
anyone else, Yomada managed to reach the cart and immediately started to
get the horses ready for a speedy exit. The mob was gaining fast though
and Yomada was forced into taking action. The dwarf started singing a
low, rumbling song, channelling the natural magic of the world. As the
tempo increased Yomada raised a hand into the air, and as the fanatical
villagers approached they were surprised to see the dwarf produce a
harp[^11] and play a powerful, magical chord of music. A deafening
thunder wave emitted from the harp and the villagers were hit by a wall
of sound. Half a dozen or so of them were flung backwards into the air,
hitting into the villagers behind. However, there were too many of them
and in an instant the empty space had been filled. The dwarf was soon
surrounded, the sun blocked out by grabbing hands and arms. The last
thing Yomada saw was a sea of grinning faces before being carried away.

* * *

The party awoke some time later. It was hard to tell how long they had
been unconscious, it was still daytime but it had become overcast and
the sun was no longer visible. They found themselves in a rather large
field that housed a solitary sheep. It most likely used to house more
livestock, but now the owner needed the space for the four long banquet
tables and the stage, complete with orchestra pit. As you can imagine,
this is not what anyone expected to wake up to.

“Ah there you are sleepy heads,” the stable master said still grinning,
“Sorry about that, some of the guys got a bit too excited. As I said, we
haven’t had newts round here for ages. You’re just in time for the party
though.”

“So you’re not going to kill us then?” Cluym asked hopefully.

“Kill you? Why would we want to do that? You’d miss the party,” the
stable master answered smiling through every syllable. As if it had been
rehearsed meticulously for weeks, the second the stable master said
party the villagers from earlier entered the field and started
merrymaking. There was singing and dancing, groups talking and laughing,
the banquet tables were suddenly filled with piles of delicious food.
Everybody was holding either a glass of deep red wine or a tankard of
ale. As Cluym watched the feasting he noticed something odd about the
food. He tried to concentrate as people took food from the middle of the
table, but it felt like his eyes didn’t want to watch what was
happening. When he finally could focus again the plates in the middle
looked untouched, yet everybody sitting at the table had full plates and
were merrily eating. The same thing happened with the drinks, people
would drink from their glasses but the amount of liquid appeared to
remain constant. In Cluym’s professional opinion, something was up.

“Quite a party you have here,” Yomada remarked, “Do you do this often?”

“Oh we’re always partying we are. Why would we do anything else?” the
stable master replied.

“And what’s with calling us newts?”

“Well that’s just a bit of fun, ‘new people’, ‘new-ts’. The guys like
it, keeps them happy.”

“OK. Final question, I don’t suppose you guys like harp music?” said
Yomada, always on the lookout for a good audience, “I am a bard of some
considerable talent and fame.”

“Do we? We love it! Come on, I’ll take you to the stage,” the stable
master said leading Yomada through the crowds, “Hey guys, we’ve got a
bard!” A large cheer went around the field. Up on stage Yomada made a
grand show of producing a harp from thin air to raucous applause. The
dwarf then went on to play song after song. The villagers were the best
audience anyone could ask for. They cheered and applauded at all the
correct times. They danced to the uplifting songs and were moved to
tears by the sombre ones. Yomada knew on some level that no audience was
this good, but didn’t really care.

Unlike the villagers, Thogold and Cluym were not having a very good
time. They had heard Yomada’s full repertoire several times on the way
here and were sick of it. They decided to use this time to try and find
out what had happened in this village. All they could get from the
locals though was that about six months ago, ‘the party’ started. Around
that time their leaders left and the population slowly started to fall
as others left as well. Whenever anyone new arrived they were invited to
join in ‘the party’ and that’s all that anyone who lived here did
nowadays. Despite their unusual welcoming method, the villagers actually
seemed relatively harmless. Cluym decided that it was probably best not
to consume any of the food or drink, just in case.

When Yomada had finished playing for the villagers[^12], Thogold caught
them up on what he had found out. After a brief discussion, the group
decided that it was probably safe to just walk out and leave, but just
to make sure Yomada had an idea.

“Friends,” the dwarf said, addressing the villagers, “it is your lucky
day. My friends and I are actually a travelling troupe of world famous
actors. I know, it is hard to believe that one dwarf can be so talented
but I am no ordinary dwarf. We were just passing by your quaint little
village on our way to the opening performance of our new play. However,
I have managed to convince my fellow performers to give you all a little
preview. We just need to quickly go back to our cart and change into our
costumes, but we’ll be right back. Keep the stage warm!”

A large cheer rose up and people starting moving chairs towards the
stage as the four travellers snuck out at a brisk pace. Once they left
the field they headed straight for the village square. The tavern the
villagers had poured out of earlier was on the corner of the square, so
they figured they could find their way back to the cart from there. As
they approached it though a figure popped into existence directly in the
middle. He was an old looking man, wearing a bright red robe with a
pointy hat. He briefly looked around before spying the group and headed
towards them.

“Have you seen my daughter? I haven’t seen her in a few days,” the old
man asked.

“Um, no, can’t say that we have. We only arrived here this morning,
sorry,” Yomada replied, continuing to back away slowly towards the cart.

“Oh well, if you see her tell her that I’m looking for her,” the old man
turned around and started walking away, “I don’t know where she could
have gotten to.” He continued to mumble to himself until he disappeared
as quickly as he had appeared. Eager to avoid any further delays, the
group picked up the pace to a jog[^13]. They had almost reached the
stables when Thogold had a realisation.

“We’ve got a problem. We stopped here to restock, we don’t have any food
left.” After a quick think, and a lot of swearing, it was decided that
they would investigate the large houses on the outskirts of the village
and try to scavenge as much food as possible. In an unexpected show of
bravery, Cluym volunteered to be the first to enter and rummage through
a house. He hadn’t had a good day so far and secretly wanted to try and
prove his worth.

The door to the first house they approached was slightly ajar. Cluym
slowly creaked the door open and peered into the dim house. A few
minutes later he determined that nothing living was inside the first
room and finally entered the house. There were no obvious signs of food,
but the next room appeared to be the kitchen. Cluym took a few steps
towards it and suddenly froze when he heard an ear shattering crash just
over his shoulder. This was quickly followed by a loud guffaw from
Yomada, who had obviously thought it would be very funny to cast a minor
auditory illusion to scare Cluym. However, the noise also startled
something in the kitchen, and a scuffle of movement could be heard
coming through the doorway. Not wishing to blindly enter a room with an
unknown creature, Cluym decided to be smart and use some magic. He
conjured a spectral hand in mid-air and floated it into the
kitchen[^14]. Using the disembodied hand, he was able to root around the
cupboards and find a crusty loaf of bread. Spoils in floating hand,
Cluym made a quick exit. Outside he was quite pleased with a job well
done, that was until Thogold broke it in half to reveal that the elf had
actually looted a crusty loaf of mould.

“When did you say ‘the party’ started? Six months ago?” Yomada enquired.
“I’m guessing there may not be any edible food left.” The group stood in
the middle of the street for a while, thinking what to do, when they
finally noticed what they should have done upon entering the village.
Darting between the shadows, squinting whenever the sunlight hit them,
were small groups of kobolds. These small, reptilian humanoids were
scavengers, living off whatever they could find that seemed vaguely
edible. This sometimes included bark and dirt. A mostly abandoned
village would have provided a five star meal for these creatures, and
they had clearly made themselves at home here.

“I’m really getting sick of this place. There’s not going to be anything
left here and Wyevale is only two days away. It may not be the nicest
journey but it will be better than staying here any longer.” Before
getting a response, Yomada headed off to the stables. The others
reluctantly agreed that it was probably for the best and followed.
Unfortunately, when they reached the stables they were greeted by a pack
of six kobolds foraging through their cart.

“What are we supposed to do now?” Cluym asked.

“You’re a wizard right, I don’t suppose you can create a large amount of
light? They didn’t seem to like the sunlight, maybe we can scare them
away,” Yomada suggested.

“I’ve got just the thing, leave it to me,” Cluym sneaked over to the
cart out of sight of the kobolds. He placed a hand on the front of the
cart and it instantly started to emit a pale light[^15]. This did have
an effect on the kobolds, but not the desired one. Now that they could
see what they were doing a bit better, their foraging increased speed.
It turned out that kobolds very specifically didn’t like sunlight, any
other form of light was fine.

“Any other brilliant ideas?”

“We could try fighting them, but I doubt you’re any good with a sword,
and if I cast a thunder wave it will destroy the cart.”

“There are two horses and only two of us,” Cluym whispered
conspiratorially, “We could just take the horses and ride out of here.”

“What, and leave our companions out here alone with no food or a means
of escape and surrounded by vicious creatures? I like the way you think,
sounds like a good way out of here. Leave this one to me.” Yomada
wandered over to Thogold.

“Right, we’ve got no choice but to fight. If we spread out and circle
the cart, hopefully we can surround and confuse them. Now of course, we
don’t want the horses to get hurt so Cluym and I will move them away
from the cart first. You head towards the back and keep an eye on the
kobolds. When the horses are safe, we will wait for you to distract them
and we will attack from behind.” Yomada had spent a lifetime learning
how to read people and lie convincingly. After travelling together
Thogold had learnt to trust Yomada, which was a big mistake. He followed
the dwarf’s plan to the letter, and patiently watched as they moved the
horses away from the combat zone… and kept moving them… and kept moving
them some more… and then mounted the horses. And then kicked himself
very hard.

Far away from the kobolds, Yomada and Cluym were quite pleased with
themselves. It was as they were riding as fast as the horses would go,
however, that our cowardly duo first suspected that Thogold was more
than just a merchant. The first clue was the arrow that suddenly
appeared in Yomada’s shoulder. The second clue, and admittedly it was
quite a large clue, was Thogold shouting, “I’m a ranger you bastards, we
could have easily fought these kobolds and killed them. Now bring those
horses back!” It made sense when they thought about it, transporting a
cart filled with valuable goods must have been quite dangerous. The only
reason Yomada hadn’t tried to take the cart earlier was Thogold was the
only one who knew where Phandalin was and he wouldn’t let Yomada look at
the map. It made sense that he would be competent with some form of
weaponry, it was just their bad luck it happened to be a bow. This was
when Yomada finally resolved to talk to any potential future companions,
if only to find out if it were safe to stab them in the back
figuratively without being stabbed in the back literally in return.

* * *

It was a gruelling couple of days that followed. Yomada had managed to
patch up the arrow shaped hole with a healing word or two, but it still
hurt a fair bit. The two kept their eyes open for any small animals they
could catch and eat, but neither of them were any good at hunting. They
spent most of their time in painful, starving silence fuelled only by
cowardice and determination to make it back to the comfort of a tavern
in Wyevale. Not Alan’s[^16] tavern of course, that would be a bit
dangerous. Fortunately, Yomada knew a few of the locals at the
‘alehouse’ and was sure that fancy people would love a harpist even more
than the rabble at Alan’s place.

The duo were a couple of hours’ ride from Wyevale when their progress
was forcibly stopped. The narrow road into the village was flanked by
densely packed trees, this meant that travellers looking to pass had to
negotiate carefully. Heading towards the dwarf and the elf was an eight
deep convoy of caravans, escorted and flanked by riders with a tail of
people walking behind. It was an impressive sight, and it obviously
housed someone very rich and powerful, but it was also standing between
two weary travellers and their first chance of food in over two days.

“Look, you’re not as experienced with people as I am so just leave the
talking to me,” Yomada said, edging his horse forward a few paces, “Hail
travellers, I’m sure you have important business to get to. I am but a
simple bard and this is my… travelling companion. We are just looking to
reach yonder village and procure some much-needed nourishment. We do not
wish you any delay, so if you would hold for just a moment and let us
pass we will be on our way.”

“Why are you talking like that?” Cluym said indiscreetly.

“Shut up.” The two started squabbling again. The elven driver of the
lead caravan sat, confusedly watching the pair. After a while he picked
up a lengthy scroll of parchment from the seat next to him. He unrolled
it and tried his best to read what was written.

“The High Priestess of… of Tor re… requires and and requests your
presence. Please dismount your stee… horses and join the presses… the
precisi… the preseas… the people at the back.”

“Well that is a gracious offer, and please extend our warmest thanks to
the High Priestess, but unfortunately we have urgent business elsewhere
and it is not possible for us to attend,” Yomada respectfully declined,
not wishing to go back to Donregan for numerous reasons. The driver
looked bemused and returned to the parchment.

“Please dismount your horses. Do not worry, they will be cared for. We
only wish for you to join us on our journey,” the driver replied, this
time with a little more confidence. Yomada thought a change of tack
might provide better results.

“Don’t I know you?”[^17] The driver shuffled in his seat and looked back
at the scroll.

“The High Priestess of Tor requires and requests…”

“Yeah, I know you. You’re Alan’s son.”

“The High Priestess…” the driver started again in vain.

“How is Alan doing nowadays. Does he miss me much?”

“I don’t know anyone named Alan. I am Eridan Tarmish, son of Merry, the
innkeeper at Wyevale.”

“That’s the guy, is he still having problems with his wife?”

“My parents are happily married and have been for many years,” Eridan
said confused.

“Well I’m glad to hear it. It was great catching up but we really need
to get going so if you would just let us by,” Yomada tried hopefully.

“Yes, and we really don’t want to go back the way you’re heading. We
stole these horses from some merchants back there and left them to be
eaten by kobolds,” Cluym chimed in[^18]. Both Eridan and Yomada were
stunned into silence. The dwarf recovered quickest.

“What my simple-minded friend means is that we used these horses that
belong to **our** party to escape the dangerous village up ahead to find
aid in rescuing our friends. As you can imagine this is quite an
important task so we must get on our way.”

“You called me friend,” Cluym said equally surprised and delighted.
Eridan stared from one to the other and then reluctantly put his scroll
down.

“Look, I’ve been paid good money to drive this caravan and to read from
this scroll to anyone who we meet on the way. Can you please just do as
you’ve been asked?” Yomada heard the desperation and frustration in
Eridan’s voice and decided to take it easy on him. Besides, there was
one more trick the dwarf could try.

“I beg an audience with the High Priestess of Tor!”[^19] A visible wave
of relief washed over Eridan’s face.

“Yes of course, she’s in the caravan behind this one,” as he said that a
rather large, well-armed guard opened the door to the caravan behind
his. Yomada instantly regretted asking to speak with an obviously very
powerful and, most likely, quick to anger High Priestess, surrounded by
walking suits of armour holding very pointy blades.

“Just one quick question, what race is the High Priestess? Just so I
know the correct curtesy.”

“Oh, she’s an elf. A very beautiful elf,” Eridan said with a grin.

“Why am I surrounded by elves everywhere I go?” Yomada mumbled whilst
dismounting. Cluym followed suit, but stayed a cautious few steps
behind. The dwarf approached the opened door and bowed low, avoiding
looking at the High Priestess out of respect.

“Your highness, I have some grave news about the road you travel and
humbly request that we may speak so that I can warn you.”

“Welcome,” a fair voice drifted out of the caravan, “Thank you for the
warning, please enter and we shall discuss this matter.”

Following the invitation, Yomada finally looked up and saw the High
Priestess, a beautifully enchanting dwarf. This took Yomada by surprise.

“Is there a problem traveller?” the High Priestess asked, noticing the
hesitation.

“Well, it’s just that your driver up front said you were an elf. I
wasn’t expecting to be greeted by such a beautiful dwarf.” Upon hearing
this Cluym peaked round the door and was also taken by surprise.

“What do you mean, she is an elf?” The High Priestess simply sat
smiling, motioning for them to enter.

“This is going to be interesting,” Yomada said, and entered the caravan.


[^1]: The cause seemed natural but some say it was due to his massive
    disappointment in his apprentice.

[^2]: Now, if I’m being honest, notice board is a slightly poetic way of
    describing a flat-ish section of wall that people stuck parchment to
    with knives. The landlord had tried to stop people from using the
    ‘notice board’ but he had been thus far unsuccessful due to poor
    timing. Asking muscle bound drunkards whose height far outstretched
    their IQ not to do something whilst they are still holding their
    knife is not usually advised.

[^3]: The one thing Cluym and Yomada did have in common, other than a
    desire to go to Phandalin, was neither of them were any good at
    asking for or remembering names. As you can imagine this would get
    them into trouble on quite a few occasions.

[^4]: As subtle as a drunken dwarf that’s manoeuvring a harp a foot
    taller than them can. That is to say only seven drinks were spilled,
    one foot crushed and three separate bar fights started.

[^5]: In other words, a half hour shouting match that ended when ‘Alan’
    burst in and informed them that he would throw them out if they
    didn’t shut up and, once again, that his name was Merry.

[^6]: If all went to plan though, there would be no story to tell.

[^7]: The best way to describe Cruben was he had both the intelligence,
    and personality, of a puppy but the body of a half shaved grizzly
    bear.

[^8]: It is a common belief in these parts that there is no free will
    and everything that happens is dictated by the gods. Criminals try,
    and fail, quite often to use this as an excuse for their actions. It
    is however, fundamentally incorrect. The gods, like anyone else,
    only want to be entertained. There is no fun if you know what is
    going to happen so the gods merely set things in motion. Whichever
    god set these events in motion was currently slapping themselves on
    their forehead in dismay at how imperceptive Yomada and Cluym could
    be.

[^9]: Wizards are quite often found accompanying adventurous parties,
    brought along for their impressive spell casting abilities. These
    powerful spells come in quite handy in battle to either protect
    allies or smite foes. The one downside to wizards though is that
    casting spells takes a lot of energy. Most wizards can only cast a
    few spells before they need a long rest to recover the spent energy.
    At this point, given their affinity for staying indoors and reading
    books, they become as useful in battle as knitted, woollen
    chainmail; if you’re lucky they will get in the way of an enemy’s
    sword and extend your life for a whole two seconds.

[^10]: Told you so.

[^11]: This is a subject that has needed to be addressed for a while.
    How does a 4 foot 3 dwarf transport a 5 foot 4 harp around, let
    alone deftly produce it in the middle of a battlefield. The short
    answer is magic. The long answer is a cheaper version of a ‘bag of
    holding’, a magical item that opens up into a pocket dimension and
    thus can hold more within than it looks like it can without, that
    curiously, yet purposefully, can only store harps and sewed into the
    inner lining of Yomada’s jacket, hence called a ‘pocket of harping’.
    This, combined with a fair amount of dexterity, years of practise,
    and more bruises from failed attempts than can be remembered;
    creates quite a spectacle when successfully pulled off and more
    often than not is more useful in surprising the enemy than it is for
    its aid in casting magical spells. But most people just stick with
    the short answer.

[^12]: Well, after the three standing ovations and four encores.

[^13]: More of a sprint for Yomada’s shorter legs.

[^14]: Before you start complaining about continuity errors, there are
    different levels of magic. Cantrips are simple spells that any
    magically inclined being can cast at will. Basically, a cantrip is
    like a street magician producing a coin from behind your ear and a
    spell is like a Vegas duo sawing a woman in half. This was a
    cantrip, Cluym still couldn’t cast spells.

[^15]: Another cantrip, you’re not going to catch me out that easily.

[^16]: “It’s Merry!”

[^17]: Even though they don’t physically exist in every reality, the
    spirit of a call centre is a universal constant. There is always
    someone, somewhere, desperately trying to get a complete stranger to
    agree to something they don’t want by simply following a script
    written by a third party with a very limited imagination of how a
    conversation could go. Yomada instinctively knew that the best thing
    to do was to steer the conversation completely away from where the
    seller wanted it to be.

[^18]: You remember I said Yomada wasn’t very good at getting to know
    the people he travelled with and that this got him into trouble
    quite often. Well Cluym had an odd quirk where he was completely
    unable to lie, and the thieving, cheating, lying bardic dwarf had
    chosen to team up with him.

[^19]: In other words, “Can I speak to your manager?”